1 :- What is version vontrol?
Version control is a management of information like documents, projects code ,etc. it can track
collaborative changes to your project. So that Developers is aware of the recent changes in the 
project code and can change and access the recent version of the project code . also can view all the 
past versions of code.

2 :- What is centralized versiom control?
It works like client-server model. One centralized server and a localized repository file system that 
is accessible by number of clients. advantages of centralized contol version system are model and 
simplicity and ease of use. example is subversion like google docs, etc. subversion is version control
system based on a centralized version control system. In subversion there is only one repository file 
system usually stored on network server . to work on projects we have to connect to central file system 
through network connection. In subversion you can not work on project without network connection.

3 :- what is distributed version control?
It is peer-to-peer type of system. in this system all developers have their local file system and 
cahnges between file file system are implemented locally on their machines . advantages are faster 
access, ability to work offline does not rely on a single location for backups. example are github and 
merculiar.

4 :- what is git?
Git is open-sourced and you can open public or private file system which is accessible by your project 
team. git is invented by linus torvalds. he is also the father of linux operating system and he stills 
maintains linux operating system kernall. git is faster than merculiar for network operation such as 
downloading and uploading project files to the server. git appraoches to branches are more powerfull 
than merculiar. it is more powerfull for larger projects. it is widely used popular version contol 
system in use today. example are Amazon, microosoft, have adopted git for their many projects.

5 :- what is github?
Git is tool to manage the change of history of code, whereas github is web-based git file-hosting service
which enables us to showcase or share our project and file to others. to share the projects and file 
on github we need container in which we can transfer all files. thet container is called repository.
a repository is a directory which will contain our project work. in the process of sending files from 
our local machines to github files will go through three stages internally which are modified, staged,
and commited.  